storage service (#541)
vesoft-inc/nebula-docs: docs-2.0/1.introduction/3.nebula-graph-architecture/4.storage-service.md

# Storage Service

 The persistent data of Nebula Graph have two parts. One is the [Meta Service](2.meta-service.md) that stores the meta data.

> The other is Storage Service that stores the data, which is run by nebula-storaged process. This topic will describe the architecture of Storage Service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The other is Storage Service that stores the data, which is run by the nebula-storaged process. This topic will describe the architecture of Storage Service.
```

## Advantages

- High performance (Customized built-in KVStore)

> - Great scalability (Shared-nothing architecture, not rely on NAS/SAN-like device)

Reviewer: devices? Check through the topic for such issues.

- Strong consistency (Raft)

- High availability (Raft)

- Supports synchronizing with the third party systems, such as [Elasticsearch](../4.deployment-and-installation/6.deploy-text-based-index/2.deploy-es.md).

## The architecture of Storage Service

![image](https://docs-cdn.nebula-graph.com.cn/1.overview/3.design-and-architecture/2.storage-design/storage-design.png)

> Storage Service is run by nebula-storaged process. Users can deploy nebula-storaged processes on different occasions. For example, users can deploy 1 nebula-storaged process in test environment while deploy 3 nebula-storaged processes in production environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Storage Service is run by the  nebula-storaged process. Users can deploy nebula-storaged processes on different occasions. For example, users can deploy 1 nebula-storaged process in a test environment and deploy 3 nebula-storaged processes in a production environment.
```

All the nebula-storaged processes consist the Raft-based cluster. There are three layers in the Storage Service.:

- Storage interface

>    The top layer is storage interface. It defines a set of APIs that are related to the graph. These API requirements will be translated into a set of KV operations targeting the corresponding [Partition](#data_partitioning). For example:

Reviewer 2: requirements -> requests

Reviewer 2: It defines a set of APIs that are related to the graph concepts.

>   - `getNeighbors`: query the in-edge or out-edge of a set of vertices, return the edges and the corresponding properties, and support conditional filters.

Reviewer 2: conditional filterings.

  - `insert vertex/edge`：insert a vertex or edge and its properties.

  - `getProps`：get the properties of a vertex or an edge.

  It is this layer that makes the Storage Service a real graph storage. Otherwise it is just a KV storage.

- Consensus

  Below the storage interface is the consensus layer that implements [Multi Group Raft](#multi_group_raft), which ensures the strong consistency and high availability of Storage Service.

- Store engine

>   The bottom layer is the local storage engine, providing operations like `get`, `put`, and `scan` on local data. The related interfaces are stored in `KVStore.h` and `KVEngine.h` files. Users can develop their own local store plugins based on their needs.

Reviewer 2: The bottom layer is the local storage engine library,

Reviewer 2: local data -> local disks.

The following will describe some features of Storage Service based on the above architecture.

## KVStore

> Nebula Graph develops its own KVStore to meet the performance needs of:

Reviewer 2: develop and customize the built-in  KVStore

- High performance KVStore.

> - Library-formed storage service for efficient pushdown. As a strong-typed database, how to provide Schema during pushdown is the key of efficiency.

Reviewer 2: it is provided as a (kv) library and can be easily developed for the filtering-pushdown purpose. As a strong-typed database, how to get schema during the filtering-pushdown is the key to efficiency.

- Strong data consistency.

Therefore, Nebula Graph develops its own KVStore with RocksDB as the local storage engine. The advantages are as follows:

> - For multiple hard disks machine, Nebula Graph can make full use of its concurrent capacities through deploying multiple data directories.

Reviewer 2: For multiple local hard disks,

- Meta Service manages all the Storage Service. All the partition distribution data and current machine status can be found in the meta service. Accordingly, users can execute a manual load balancing plan in meta service.
  
  !!! note

>         Nebula Graph does not support auto load balancing lest auto data transfer would affect online business.

Reviewer 2: lest ?

since ?

- Nebula Graph provides its own WAL mode so one can customize the WAL. Each partition owns its WAL.

- One Nebula Graph KVStore cluster supports multiple graph spaces, and each graph space has its own partition number and replica copies. Different graph spaces are isolated physically from each other in the same cluster.

## Data storage formats

Nebula Graph stores vertices and edges. Efficient property filtering is critical for a Graph Database. So, Nebula Graph uses keys to store vertices and edges, while uses values to store the related properties.

> Nebula Graph 2.0 has changed a lot over its releases. The following will introduce the old and new data storage formats and cover their differences.

Reviewer 2: Nebula Graph 2.0  ->   `Nebula Graph {{ nebula.base20 }}`

!!! Note

    Raft-wal needs to be written into hard disk periodically. If hard disk bottlenecks to write, Raft will fail to heartbeat and conduct a new round of election. If the hard disk IO is severely blocked, there will be no Leader for a long time.

Read and write: For every writing request of the clients, the Leader will initiate a Raft-wal and synchronize it with the Followers. Only after over half replicas have received the Raft-wal will it return to the clients successfully. For every reading request of the clients, it will get to the Leader directly, while Followers will not be involved.

> Failure: If the system has only one replica, Leader will be itself. If failure happens, the system will be completely unavailable. If the system has three replicas, one of them will be Leader and the rest will be Followers. If the Leader fails, the rest two can still vote for a new Leader (and a Follower), and the system is still available. But if any of the two Followers fails again, the system will be completely unavailable due to inadequate voters.

Reviewer 2: Please refer to the updated paragraph in CN.

!!! Note

    Raft and HDFS have different modes of duplication. Raft is based on a majority vote, so the number of replicas cannot be even.

Listener: As is a special role in Raft, it cannot vote or keep data consistency. In Nebula Graph, it reads Raft-wal from Leader and synchronizes it to ElasticSearch cluster.

### Multi Group Raft

> Storage service supports a distributed cluster architecture, so Nebula Graph implements Multi Group Raft according to Raft requirement. Each Raft group stores all the replicas of each partition. One replica is the leader, while others are followers. In this way, Nebula Graph achieves strong consistency and high availability. The functions of Raft are as follows.

Reviewer 2: according to Raft requirement -> Raft protocal

Nebula Graph uses Multi Group Raft to improve performance when there are many partitions because Raft-wal cannot be NULL. When there are too many partitions, costs will increase, such as storage information in Raft group, WAL files, or batch operation in low load.

There are two key points to implement the Multi Raft Group:

- To share transport layer

   Each Raft Group sends messages to its corresponding peers. So if the transport layer cannot be shared, the connection costs will be very high.

- To share thread pool

  Raft Groups share the same thread pool to prevent starting too many threads and a high context switch cost.

### Batch

For each partition, it is necessary to do a batch to improve throughput when writing the WAL serially. As Nebula Graph uses WAL to implement some special functions, batches need to be grouped, which is a feature of Nebula Graph.

For example, lock-free CAS operations will execute after all the previous WALs are committed. So for a batch, if there are several WALs in CAS type, we need to divide this batch into several smaller groups and make sure they are committed serially.

### Listener

> Listener is designed for **storage expansion**. It takes a long time for the newly added machines to synchronize data during expansion. If synchronizing as a follower, the availability of the entire cluster will decrease.

Reviewer 2: storage horizontal scaling. 

Listener is designed for **storage horizontal scaling. **. It takes a long time for the newly added machines to be synchronized with data. Therefore these manchine can't join the group followers, otherwise, the availability of the entire cluster will decrease.

> Listener will be written into the WAL command. If the leader finds a command of `add learner` when writing the WAL, it will add the learner to its peers and mark it as a Listener. Listeners will not be included into the majorities, but logs will still be sent to them as usual. Listeners themselves will not initiate elections.

Reviewer 2: The listener will write into the command WAL.

Reviewer 2: t will add the learner to its peers
it will add the  listener  to its peers

Reviewer 2: Listeners will not be included into the majorities. -> Listeners can not join the quorum votes.

Author: I think "it will add the learner to its peers" is right, considering the context.

## Differences with HDFS

Storage Service is a Raft-based distributed architecture, which has certain differences with that of HDFS. For example:

- Storage service ensures consistency through Raft. Usually, the number of its replicas are odd to elect a leader. However, DataNode used by HDFS ensures consistency through NameNode, which has no limit on the number of replicas.

- In Storage service, only the replicas of the leader can read and write, while in HDFS all the replicas can do so.

- In Storage service, the number of replicas needs to be determined when creating a space, since it cannot be changed afterwards. But in HDFS, the number of replicas can be changed freely.

> - Storage service can access to the file system directly, while the upper layer of HDFS (such as HBase) needs to access HDFS before the file system, using RPC more times.

Reviewer 2: Storage services can access the file system directly. While the applications of HDFS (such as HBase) have to access HDFS before the file system, which requires more RPC times.

> In a word，Storage service is more lightweight with some functions simplified and its architecture is simpler than HDFS, which can effectively improve the read and write performance of small storage.

Reviewer 2: a smaller block of data.
